# Data-Warehouse using RedShift
# Project: Data Warehouse

## Introduction
A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. 
Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

This project aims to build an ETL pipeline for a database hosted on Redshift, that extracts their data from S3 bucket.
Then execute SQL statements that create the analytics tables from these staging tables on Redshift.


## Project Datasets
There are two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:

    Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data
    Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data
    Log data json path: s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json

### Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song
and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are file paths to two files in this dataset.

    song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
    song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.

    {"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}
    
### Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. 
These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are file paths to two files in this dataset.

    log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
    log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json

## Schema for Song Play Analysis
Using the song and event datasets, we'll create a star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis. This includes the following tables.

#### 1. Fact Table
**songplays** - records in event data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong

    songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent
    
#### 2. Dimension Tables
**2.1 users** - users in the app

    user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
    
    
**2.2songs** - songs in music database

    song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
    
    
**2.3artists** - artists in music database

    artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude
    
    
**2.4time** - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
    
    start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday


## Project Template

The project template includes four files:

> - `create_table.py`: Where fact and dimension tables are created for the star schema in Redshift.

> - `etl.py` : Where data is loaded from S3 into staging tables on Redshift and then process that data into your analytics tables on Redshift.

> - `sql_queries.py`: Where SQL statements are defined, and which will be imported into the two other files above.

> - `README.md`: It provide discussion on the process and decisions for this ETL pipeline.

## Project Steps

#### 1. Create a new IAM user
IAM service is a global service, meaning newly created IAM users are not restricted to a specific region by default.
- Go to [AWS IAM service](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/users) and click on the "**Add user**" button to create a new IAM user in your AWS account. 
- Choose a name of your choice. 
- Select "*Programmatic access*" as the access type. Click Next. 
- Choose the *Attach existing policies directly* tab, and select the "**AdministratorAccess**". Click Next. 
- Skip adding any tags. Click Next. 
- Review and create the user. It will show you a pair of access key ID and secret.
- Take note of the pair of access key ID and secret. This pair is collectively known as **Access key**. 

#### 2. Create Table Schemas
Design schemas for fact and dimension tables.

#### 3. Build ETL Pipeline

#### 4. Document Process
